Our project is multi thread chat system using Java.
So we are going to use your Java as a language, our primary language for creating a chat system using
some multithreading concepts.
So I will tell you why we are going with multi threading and each and every part and what is the multithreading
in the Java.
But before that, I'm going to tell some basic concepts of Java also.
So the Java project is based on core Java Java swing for good purpose and some Java Multithreading concepts.
I will tell you why we are going with multi trading and each and everything.
So first this Java multi thread chat system.
So we are going to create a simple chat system for the text and everything we are going to create.
So this is basically text chat system only and we are going to create a Java multi trading here for
the chat and client and server process.
Throughout the process, I'm using client word as a user and server as a service provider.
So remember that whenever I'm using client, it's basically means that the user of that check system
and server is basically for the service provider of that.
Or we can the connection for that purpose.
So let us see what is the project aim or what is our project aim basically?
So Project Aim is basically our developer chat application interface using using Java with two Multithreading
concepts we are going to use here and we are going to develop a chat system with some application interface.
Also we are going to create here.
So these are all about how we are going to create our shared system.
So let us see what is our basically tools we are required here.
So first our tool is our ID, but before that, let us consider some steps of development for our project
manner and each and everything.
So first thing you should always remember here is.
We are going to create your check system.
So for that purpose.
What we are considering here is we are going to set up our project first.
Second is our understanding, different tools, what we are going to use here then Java.
Basic concepts here we are going to use some.
Or and also some knowledge of our Java swing.
Also, you should have some Java multi trading concepts also and final step is our service edition port
forwarding.
So for that purpose I'm using here some systems.
So steps are our project setup understanding different tools.
Java Basic Concepts, Java Multithreading Java Swing Server Edition Port Forwarding.
So these are the six steps of our project development.
So let us see what we are going to use here or different tools.
So application requirements Java Basic Knowledge Multithreading concepts.
I'm going to tell, but you should know some basic concepts of Multithreading also and Java.
I'm not telling more deep part of Java swing and each and everything I'm going to explain here.
But you should know why we are why we are using java string here also.
So tools required first JDK for any development you required JDK for any java development.
Secondly, git brings IDE.
I'm going to use here you can use community version also.
Or if you want, you can download ultimate version also for the student purpose.
Ultimate version is free again.
So port forwarding and system I'm going to use your is in G rock.
So these are the tools required.
So these are the basic tools.
JDK also enabled with some Java string libraries, so no need to require another libraries.
And if you want to change your port, you will be required rock also here.
So this is very simple port forwarding system.
We can say if you want, you can use another also Google Cloud, also providing such systems you can
use here.
So these are some basic application requirements.
So let us see first how we can set up our project.
So or you need to create.
Let us project here as I created already here.
So this is my new project inside Java in your ID.
You can see here our project and each and everything here.
This is my chat system.
Inside chat.
I have some different everything.
So first I will explain how we are going to create inside the command prompt itself and I'm going to
some add functions.
Later, I will create another program for you and each and everything.
So these are how we can set up our thing.
You just need to create a new Java project in ID.
After clicking the new project, it will show some different options.
Java EE, Java Web Spring.
So you should remember you have to use only Java here java.
Then specify your JDK.
IDE will automatically found that your system loaded JDK and each and every tree.
So if you don't have an install you have optional.
So there to install JDK.
So download that JDK from IDE itself or you can externally download from Google Chrome also or any browser.
Then after doing these stuffs you need to create your project.
Mention the meaningful name for that purpose and process testing with the chat system and these folders
are created.
SC is basically our source folder where we are going to create here.
So we haven't mentioned the I told you, we haven't mentioned any libraries here, but as you can see,
some libraries are already inside this all all libraries with some important thing or external libraries,
as I told you.
And these are nothing.
So these are all how we can consider.
So before that, I will tell you some basic knowledge of Java.
So Java basics.
So Java consists of three basic structure order.
We can say What is the Java structure other than Python or C, C++?
Java is very much an independent language.
So why it is machine independent because of these three structures Gvm, GUI and JDK.
So JVM is basically Java virtual machine.
So if you know the virtual machine, Java virtual machine is also similar like that, it is not physically
exist.
Second thing is provide the runtime environment with the Java bytecode.
So.
This is the beautiful thing of Java is for the client system, purpose or one system.
Like consider three systems, three computers with having separate or we can say distinct operating
systems like one is using Windows, one is using Linux and another is using Mac.
So these are three different OSes, but Java is machine independent language.
So three are the clients or we can see three are the users of our chat system.
If they have some Java platform inside their system, they can run their client.
So it is machine independent.
Likewise, the formal chat applications available in the market are machine independent.
They can run on Windows, some are running on Linux also, some are running on Mac also otherwise some
are running on Android things also.
So these are the machine independent things.
Similarly, we are going to create like that.
It is also run programs in other languages but compiled in Java basically JVM remember that.
So four are the main purposes of Gvm load a byte code or Lotus Code verifies the code, executes the
codes and provide the runtime environment.
So these are the basic concepts of JVM.
JIT is Java runtime environment, which is considering some search tools, libraries, Java files,
etc., etc..
So as I told you inside id e.
So these are external libraries.
These are the parts of all our JIT Java runtime environment because these are the runtime environments
it will call while runtime environment.
So last thing is JDK Java Development Kit.
It consists contents or it's made of of Java Plus JVM.
So these are both similar.
We can say runtime environment.
And as I told you earlier, it contains that also it consists of Java.
Java is basically Java compiler.
So why we need compiler, we are writing Simula Java, but we don't know the machine language which
is basically zero one or bytecode, etc..
So for that purpose, compiler is needed, which is converting all the Java program in machine level.
So Java or Java compiler is basically part of JDK Java development kit.
So just you downloaded the JDK from Internet from Oracle website, you are downloading or you are not
downloading git your JVM, you downloaded the JDK, which is basically whole Java package we can say
and you install that part.
So I'm using here 16th version of JDK for such purpose, but you can use any JDK here.
So no special JDK is required for this project.
So this is the basic JVM, JDK, Java, basic structure.
So why I'm telling this again and again, because if you say I'm using your Windows system for the project
development, if you want, you can use your another system also for this project development.
So Java is basically machine independent.
So this is the basic structure of JDK, Git and JVM.
So Gvm is presenting as an oval shape because this is consistent a good file.
So set libraries, jar files and some other files.
Also documentation also part here, consistent guide.
So it makes a journey.
But while developing a JDK, Giri JVM plus some Java files, what we can see some other documentation
spots.
Each and everything.
Read me files also.
And they're in Java.
So these are Java compiler is very important here inside the JDK and it makes a whole JDK.
So JVM plus makes JDK.
So Java is purely based on methods and classes, if you remember, or if you know about C or you can
say Python it is are not like methods in classes or in Python or C.
Basically there are classes, but it's not required that you should use there again and again.
But inside a Java, everything in Java is associated with classes, objects and methods with attributes
and etc..
So starting off Java is basically methods and classes.
So usefulness of this is you can easily create object oriented programming concepts inside Java and
we are going to use some object oriented programming concepts also here.
So what is object oriented is basically just create a class, create the object and use that object
again and again.
So no need to require create such a methods or create such classes again and again.
Like you have to check you order an even number.
400 times.
So what you can do, you can check such numbers again and again 400 times or what you can do.
You can create a method to pass that number inside that and just checking that number with the same
logic for even an art.
And you can use such a method again and again.
So what is usefulness of that is you can check that method also, and it's very usable less it's very
less time, complex complexity.
It has a very less time complexity.
Also, it takes very less space in your system.
But very important thing is thing is while debugging and managing that, it will be very useful.
So what is Java class methods?
I'm explaining the classes basically.
First in real life, consider a car is an object and car has a such attributes or different attributes
such as weight, color, etc. and there are some methods you break are some methods.
So God is an object.
You can create a class for that.
You can pass the attributes like weight and color and some methods like dry, you break, etc. So basically
classes are like object constructor, which is basically constructor of object, which is a blueprint.
Or we can say blueprint of our code or object.
An object in Java is basically to call classes or execute particular classes without object.
You cannot use that class at all if you are using some different part, like there are some conditions
for using classes and objects.
I will tell you in a letter, but object is called an instance of class.
So without object we cannot call the class and or we cannot use that class.
Methods is basically methods are declared within the classes.
It contains code of particular functions in classes.
You cannot specify the all the codes.
You have to create methods for that purpose and you have to execute that part.
So this is all about methods and methods contain some written values, specify then also object of classes
created for that purpose, and we can use that basically.
So what is the basic thing is classes is a hierarchy and it consists the method for calling the classes
you need to create object and using that object you can use that methods.
Syntax is very easy to code that purpose.
Remember, if you know how to print some statements in Java or etc., you remember that you have to
specify public static void main and inside that.
So it is again a method.
Static method main method is a default method in a java to run or build whole code or project.
Other than that you cannot use any part.
So while running any class, any method, you should invoke in the main method always, which is basically
public static void main method inside Java.
So this is all about Java methods and classes.
So before going in further, let us create three Java classes here.
When is our server?
When is our client and when is our message?
So for that purpose, what you are going to do is click here, right click here and start C on RC.
So sometimes it will take time to load.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create your three files, Java files.
Click right, click on insert, see, go to new and create a Java class.
So I'm mentioning is there is server.
So it will definitely take everything and it will create some default things here.
As you can see, public class server already created.
So similarly, what I'm going to do is I'm going to mention here is as a client, which is another class,
and what I'm mentioning here is a new name or a chat message because.
I want to.
Create a separate method to pass that chat message and etc..
So these are three basic structures we are going to use here.
So these are three classes we are going to use here.
In the next part, I'm going to tell you how we can proceed with this part.